.TH sel l "1 November 1993"
.SH NAME
sel \- a general-purpose file selection utility
.SH SYNTAX
.B "sel "
[
.B "-w"
.I "<width>"
]
[
.B "-i"
[
.B "-n"
.I "<field>"
]
]
.I "<cmd>"
[
.I "<flags>"
]
.I "<entries>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sel
presents the user with a window containing a list of entries, as given on
the command line. If the 
.B "-i"
option is present, standard input is read for additional entries until
end-of-file or the maximum number of allowed entries is reached.

The user can move through the list with the cursor keys, and
select/deselect entries with the space bar or Ins key.
Upon pressing return, the
.B "<cmd>"
is executed with the set of selected entries as arguments. The
.B "<flags>"
are passed through to the command as well. Flags must begin with
a `-' to be recognised as such; the entries start with the first
argument to 
.B "sel"
following the command that is not a flag (thus
the flags do not appear in the entry list and cannot be selected
or deselected).

The 
.B "<width>" 
argument allows you to specify the width to use to display an entry.
You can use this to get more columns in the display.

The 
.B "<field>"
argument causes 
.B "sel"
to strip out the specified field from each line read from
the standard input (starting with field 0). It is assumed 
that fields are separated by whitespace. If not, you should
use 
.B "cut" 
before piping the entries to
.B "sel"
.

.PP
.B sel
supports the following interactive keys:
.TP 1.2i
.B "arrow keys"
move in the direction of the arrow
.TP 1.2i
.B "k, j, h, l"
move up, down, left, or right respectively
.TP 1.2i
.B "<space>"
toggle selection of filename at cursor and move to next one
.TP 1.2i
.B "<Ins>"
same as Space.
.TP 1.2i
.B "A"
select all filenames
.TP 1.2i
.B "N"
deselect all filenames
.TP 1.2i
.B "I"
invert all selections
.TP 1.2i
.B "H, ?"
display help message
.TP 1.2i
.B "<return>"
exit with selected filenames
.TP 1.2i
.B "<escape>"
exit with no action
.TP 1.2i
.B "+"
allow the user to enter an
.B "ed"
(1) regular expression; all arguments that
match the expression are selected
.TP 1.2i
.B "X"
invoke a user specified command with the current argument
.TP 1.2i
.B "Z"
invoke a user specified command with the currently selected arguments
.TP 1.2i
.B "-"
similar to 
.B "+"
, but the matching files are deselected
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
	sel vi *.c
	sel ls -l /bin/*
 	sel echo *.c | xargs cc -c
	find . -name '*.c' -print | sel -i cc -c
.fi

The third example is equivalent to the simpler:

.nf
	sel cc -c *.c
.fi
.SH NOTES
Remember that quoted arguments have their quotes stripped by the shell
before they are passed to 
.I sel.

When using 
.B "X"
or 
.B "Z"
interactively, you can use 
.B "@"
as a placeholder
in the command string to represent where the arguments
must go. If there is no 
.B "@"
the arguments are appended to the command string.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I regexp
(5)

.I gc3
(l) Gram's Commander.
.SH AUTHOR
Graham Wheeler, gram@aztec.co.za.


